README.md, before:

# fpga-serial-mem-tester-3

FPGA Serial Mem Tester Version 3

by Timothy Stotts

Now with support for:

- Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 FPGA development board containing a small Xilinx Spartan-7 FPGA
- Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 FPGA development board containing a large Xilinx Artix-7 FPGA
- Digilent Inc. Zybo Z7-20 APSoC development board containing a moderate Xilinx Zynq-7000 SoC.

Note that this project is kept as a intermediate-level design that students, hobbyists, and
FPGA enthusiasts may find interesting.

## Description
A small FPGA project of different implementations for testing a N25Q Serial Flash.
Status is displayed in abbreviated text on a 16x2 character LCD,
with color-mixing two or four RGB LEDs,
and with displaying PASS and DONE status on two basic LEDs.

The Xilinx MicroBlaze designs can now target either of two FPGA development boards produced by Digilent Inc; one being
lower cost. Also, the HDL design can target either of the same two FPGA development boards.
- Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 FPGA development board containing a small Xilinx Spartan-7 FPGA
- Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 FPGA development board containing a large Xilinx Artix-7 FPGA

Two peripherals are used: Digilent Inc. Pmod SF3, Digilent Inc. Pmod CLS.

Additionally, the Xilinx Zynq design targets the
- Digilent Inc. Zybo Z7-20 FPGA development board containing a Xilinx Zynq-7000 APSoC.

Two peripherals are used: Digilent Inc. Pmod SF3, Digilent Inc. Pmod CLS.

The design is broken into four groupings.
The first group targets the Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 development board.
The second group targets the Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 development board.
The third group targets either the Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 development board or
the Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 development board.
The last group targets the Digilent Inc. Zybo Z7-20 development board.
The projects are likely portable to the smaller Arty A7-35 and Zybo Z7-10
respectively as the designs are low resource utilization.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7 contains a Xilinx Vivado IP Integrator plus
Xilinx Vitis design. A MicroBlaze soft CPU is instantiated to talk with board components,
a 16x2 character LCD display, and a N25Q serial flash.
Source to be incorporated into a Xilinx Vitis project contain
a small FreeRTOS program in C; drivers for the peripherals; and a main loop to
execute a software FSM that operates byte-by-byte testing of the N25Q serial
flash. This design targets the Arty A7-100 development board.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-MB-S7 contains a Xilinx Vivado IP Integrator plus
Xilinx Vitis design. The design is essentially the same as the SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7 mentioned
above, but instead targets the Arty S7-25 development board, including the differences in available
board components, such as count of RGB LEDs.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-VHDL contains a Xilinx Vivado project with sources
containing only VHDL-2002 and VHDL-2008 modules. Plain HDL without a soft CPU or C code is authored to
talk with board components, a N25Q SPI Flash 256Mbit, and a 16x2 character LCD peripheral. The
design is essentially equivalent function as the
SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7/SF-Tester-Design-MB-S7
projects, but executes much faster as the control loop FSM is implemented in hardware
instead of a low-speed CPU. This design targets either of the Arty A7-100 or the Arty S7-25
development boards, and adjusts for the difference in available board components, such as
count of RGB LEDs.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-Zynq contains a Xilinx Vivado IP Integrator plus Xilinx Vitis
design. The Zynq hard ARM CPU #0 is configured to talk with board components,
a 16x2 character LCD display, and a N25Q serial flash.
Its functionality is mostly equivalent function to that of the SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7 design,
but differs in the count of RGB LEDs.

### VHDL naming conventions notice
The Pmod peripherals used in this project connect via a standard bus technology design called SPI.
The use of MOSI/MISO terminology is considered obsolete. COPI/CIPO is now used. The MOSI signal on a
controller can be replaced with the title 'COPI'. Master and Slave terms are now Controller and Peripheral.
Additional information can be found [here](https://www.oshwa.org/a-resolution-to-redefine-spi-signal-names).
The choice to use COPI and CIPO instead of SDO and SDI for single-direction bus signals is simple.
On a single peripheral bus with two data lines of fixed direction, the usage of the signal name
"SDO" is dependent on whether the Controller or the Peripheral is the chip being discussed;
whereas COPI gives the exact direction regardless of which chip is being discussed. The author
of this website agrees with the open source community that the removal of offensive language from
standard terminology in engineering is a priority. Note that for CPU-based designs, the engineer
cannot change the terminology in use by the tools.

### Project information document:

./Serial Flash Sector Tester.pdf

[Serial Flash Sector Tester info](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/Serial%20Flash%20Sector%20Tester.pdf)

### Diagrams design document:

./SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams.pdf

[Serial Flash Sector Tester Design Diagrams info](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams.pdf)

#### Target device assembly: Arty A7-100 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-assembled-20200722.jpg)

#### Target device execution: Arty A7-100 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly executing](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-executing-a_20210217.jpg)

#### Target device assembly: Arty S7-25 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-s7-assembled-20220723.jpg)

#### Target device execution: Arty S7-25 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly executing](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-s7-executing-a-20220723.jpg)

#### Target device assembly: Zybo Z7-20 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-zynq-assembled-20200730.jpg)

#### Target device execution: Zybo Z7-20 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-zynq-executing-a-20220723.jpg)

#### Block diagram architecture of the HDL design:
![SF3 Tester Architecture Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Architecture%201.svg)

#### Top Port diagram architecture of the HDL design:
![SF3 Tester Top Ports Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Top-Ports.svg)

#### Tester FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![SF3 Tester FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Tester-FSM.svg)

#### LCD FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![LCD FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-LCD-FSM.svg)

#### UART Feed FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![UART Feed FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-UARTfeed.svg)

#### UART TX ONLY FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![UART Feed FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-UART-Tx-FSM.svg)

#### 4-input Multi-Debouncer for 4 exclusve inputs, such as switches or buttons, of the HDL design:
![4-bit Multi-Debouncer](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-multi-debounce.svg)

#### SF3 Custom Driver External Ports diagram of the HDL design:
![SF3 Custom Driver Ports](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SF3-ports.svg)

#### SF3 Custom Driver Internal Ports diagram of the HDL design:
![SF3 Custom Driver Ports, Internal](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SF3-ports-internal.svg)

#### Pmod SF3 Extended SPI custom driver FSM for operating the QSPI Extended SPI driver to configure and operate the functions of the N25Q Flash chip of the Pmod SF3:
![SF3 Custom Driver FSM](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SF3-QSPI-FSM.svg)

#### Generic QSPI Extended SPI Single Chip protocol bus driver, used by the SF3 driver
![Generic Standard SPI Single Chip bus driver](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SPI-quad-FSM.svg)

#### CLS Custom Driver External Ports diagram of the HDL designs:
![CLS Custom Driver Ports](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-CLS-ports.svg)

#### CLS Custom Driver Internal Ports diagram of the HDL designs:
![CLS Custom Driver Ports, Internal](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-CLS-ports-internal.svg)

#### Pmod CLS Standard SPI custom driver FSM for operating the standard SPI driver to send text line refreshes to the ATmega48 microcontroller chip of the Pmod CLS:
![CLS Custom Driver readings driver FSM](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-CLS-driver-FSM.svg)

#### Generic Standard SPI Single Chip protocol bus driver, used by the the CLS driver
![Generic Standard SPI Single Slave bus driver](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SPI-generic-FSM.svg)

#### Utility FSMs: synchonous pulse stretcher FSM
![Utility FSMs, one-shot, pulse stretcher](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Utility-FSMs.svg)

Commit message:

Corections were made to the project README to mention the SystemVerilog project and to have a working link to the introduction document.

README.md, after:

# fpga-serial-mem-tester-3

FPGA Serial Mem Tester Version 3

by Timothy Stotts

Now with support for:

- Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 FPGA development board containing a small Xilinx Spartan-7 FPGA
- Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 FPGA development board containing a large Xilinx Artix-7 FPGA
- Digilent Inc. Zybo Z7-20 APSoC development board containing a moderate Xilinx Zynq-7000 SoC.

Note that this project is kept as a intermediate-level design that students, hobbyists, and
FPGA enthusiasts may find interesting.

## Description
A small FPGA project of different implementations for testing a N25Q Serial Flash.
Status is displayed in abbreviated text on a 16x2 character LCD,
with color-mixing two or four RGB LEDs,
and with displaying PASS and DONE status on two basic LEDs.

The Xilinx MicroBlaze designs can now target either of two FPGA development boards produced by Digilent Inc; one being
lower cost. Also, the HDL design can target either of the same two FPGA development boards.
- Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 FPGA development board containing a small Xilinx Spartan-7 FPGA
- Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 FPGA development board containing a large Xilinx Artix-7 FPGA

Two peripherals are used: Digilent Inc. Pmod SF3, Digilent Inc. Pmod CLS.

Additionally, the Xilinx Zynq design targets the
- Digilent Inc. Zybo Z7-20 FPGA development board containing a Xilinx Zynq-7000 APSoC.

Two peripherals are used: Digilent Inc. Pmod SF3, Digilent Inc. Pmod CLS.

The design is broken into four groupings.
The first group targets the Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 development board.
The second group targets the Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 development board.
The third and fourth groups target either the
Digilent Inc. Arty A7-100 development board or
the Digilent Inc. Arty S7-25 development board.
The last group targets the Digilent Inc. Zybo Z7-20 development board.
The projects are likely portable to the smaller Arty A7-35 and Zybo Z7-10
respectively as the designs are low resource utilization.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7 contains a Xilinx Vivado IP Integrator plus
Xilinx Vitis design. A MicroBlaze soft CPU is instantiated to talk with board components,
a 16x2 character LCD display, and a N25Q serial flash.
Source to be incorporated into a Xilinx Vitis project contain
a small FreeRTOS program in C; drivers for the peripherals; and a main loop to
execute a software FSM that operates byte-by-byte testing of the N25Q serial
flash. This design targets the Arty A7-100 development board.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-MB-S7 contains a Xilinx Vivado IP Integrator plus
Xilinx Vitis design. The design is essentially the same as the SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7 mentioned
above, but instead targets the Arty S7-25 development board, including the differences in available
board components, such as count of RGB LEDs.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-SV contains a Xilinx Vivado project with sources
containing SystemVerilog 2012 RTL modules and VHDL visual test-bench.
Plain HDL without a soft CPU or C code is authored to
talk with board components, a N25Q SPI Flash 256Mbit, and a 16x2 character LCD peripheral. The
design is essentially equivalent function as the
SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7/SF-Tester-Design-MB-S7
projects, but executes much faster as the control loop FSM is implemented in hardware
instead of a low-speed CPU. This design targets either of the Arty A7-100 or the Arty S7-25
development boards, and adjusts for the difference in available board components, such as
count of RGB LEDs.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-VHDL contains a Xilinx Vivado project with sources
containing only VHDL-2002 and VHDL-2008 modules. Plain HDL without a soft CPU or C code is authored to
talk with board components, a N25Q SPI Flash 256Mbit, and a 16x2 character LCD peripheral. The
design is essentially equivalent function as the
SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7/SF-Tester-Design-MB-S7
projects, but executes much faster as the control loop FSM is implemented in hardware
instead of a low-speed CPU. This design targets either of the Arty A7-100 or the Arty S7-25
development boards, and adjusts for the difference in available board components, such as
count of RGB LEDs.

The folder SF-Tester-Design-Zynq contains a Xilinx Vivado IP Integrator plus Xilinx Vitis
design. The Zynq hard ARM CPU #0 is configured to talk with board components,
a 16x2 character LCD display, and a N25Q serial flash.
Its functionality is mostly equivalent function to that of the SF-Tester-Design-MB-A7 design,
but differs in the count of RGB LEDs.

### VHDL naming conventions notice
The Pmod peripherals used in this project connect via a standard bus technology design called SPI.
The use of MOSI/MISO terminology is considered obsolete. COPI/CIPO is now used. The MOSI signal on a
controller can be replaced with the title 'COPI'. Master and Slave terms are now Controller and Peripheral.
Additional information can be found [here](https://www.oshwa.org/a-resolution-to-redefine-spi-signal-names).
The choice to use COPI and CIPO instead of SDO and SDI for single-direction bus signals is simple.
On a single peripheral bus with two data lines of fixed direction, the usage of the signal name
"SDO" is dependent on whether the Controller or the Peripheral is the chip being discussed;
whereas COPI gives the exact direction regardless of which chip is being discussed. The author
of this website agrees with the open source community that the removal of offensive language from
standard terminology in engineering is a priority. Note that for CPU-based designs, the engineer
cannot change the terminology in use by the tools.

### Project information document:

./Serial Flash Sector Tester - Refreshed.pdf

[Serial Flash Sector Tester info](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/Serial%20Flash%20Sector%20Tester%20-%20Refreshed.pdf)

### Diagrams design document:

./SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams.pdf

[Serial Flash Sector Tester Design Diagrams info](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams.pdf)

#### Target device assembly: Arty A7-100 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-assembled-20200722.jpg)

#### Target device execution: Arty A7-100 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly executing](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-executing-a_20210217.jpg)

#### Target device assembly: Arty S7-25 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-s7-assembled-20220723.jpg)

#### Target device execution: Arty S7-25 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly executing](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-s7-executing-a-20220723.jpg)

#### Target device assembly: Zybo Z7-20 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-zynq-assembled-20200730.jpg)

#### Target device execution: Zybo Z7-20 with Pmod SF3, Pmod CLS on extension cable
![Target device assembly](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/img_serial-flash-tester-zynq-executing-a-20220723.jpg)

#### Block diagram architecture of the HDL design:
![SF3 Tester Architecture Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Architecture%201.svg)

#### Top Port diagram architecture of the HDL design:
![SF3 Tester Top Ports Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Top-Ports.svg)

#### Tester FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![SF3 Tester FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Tester-FSM.svg)

#### LCD FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![LCD FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-LCD-FSM.svg)

#### UART Feed FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![UART Feed FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-UARTfeed.svg)

#### UART TX ONLY FSM diagram of the HDL design:
![UART Feed FSM Diagram](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-UART-Tx-FSM.svg)

#### 4-input Multi-Debouncer for 4 exclusve inputs, such as switches or buttons, of the HDL design:
![4-bit Multi-Debouncer](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-multi-debounce.svg)

#### SF3 Custom Driver External Ports diagram of the HDL design:
![SF3 Custom Driver Ports](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SF3-ports.svg)

#### SF3 Custom Driver Internal Ports diagram of the HDL design:
![SF3 Custom Driver Ports, Internal](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SF3-ports-internal.svg)

#### Pmod SF3 Extended SPI custom driver FSM for operating the QSPI Extended SPI driver to configure and operate the functions of the N25Q Flash chip of the Pmod SF3:
![SF3 Custom Driver FSM](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SF3-QSPI-FSM.svg)

#### Generic QSPI Extended SPI Single Chip protocol bus driver, used by the SF3 driver
![Generic Standard SPI Single Chip bus driver](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SPI-quad-FSM.svg)

#### CLS Custom Driver External Ports diagram of the HDL designs:
![CLS Custom Driver Ports](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-CLS-ports.svg)

#### CLS Custom Driver Internal Ports diagram of the HDL designs:
![CLS Custom Driver Ports, Internal](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-CLS-ports-internal.svg)

#### Pmod CLS Standard SPI custom driver FSM for operating the standard SPI driver to send text line refreshes to the ATmega48 microcontroller chip of the Pmod CLS:
![CLS Custom Driver readings driver FSM](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-CLS-driver-FSM.svg)

#### Generic Standard SPI Single Chip protocol bus driver, used by the the CLS driver
![Generic Standard SPI Single Slave bus driver](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-SPI-generic-FSM.svg)

#### Utility FSMs: synchonous pulse stretcher FSM
![Utility FSMs, one-shot, pulse stretcher](https://github.com/timothystotts/fpga-serial-mem-tester-3/blob/main/SF-Tester-Design-Documents/SF-Tester-Design-Diagrams-Utility-FSMs.svg)
